[MUSIC]
We've discussed the Dyna architecture and
how it combines planning,
learning and acting.
We've also studied how Dyna-Q
operates in a grid world.
Let's get down to business and
run some experiments to see
how well Dyna-Q really works.
In this video you will use a small grid
world to compare tabular Dyna-Q and
model free Q-learning.
By the end of this video you will be able
to describe how learning from both real
and model experience impacts performance.
You will also be able to explain
how a model allows the agent
to learn from fewer interactions
with the environment.
Today, we will run some experiments
on this small maze environment.
Like before, the agent has four actions.
Transitioning into the goal
state generates a reward of +1.
All other transitions
generate a reward of 0.
This problem is episodic and
we will use a discount of 0.95.
Let's compare Dyna-Q with
different amounts of planning.
We will compare three agents.
Each one will use alpha equal to 0.1 and
epsilon equal to 0.1.
We initialize the action value
estimates to 0 for all three agents.
We run the experiment for 50 episodes
30 times and then average the results.
Let's have a look.
[SOUND] We can plot the average
number of steps the agent
took to complete each episode
after more and more episodes.
If the agent is doing well,
then the number of steps should
decrease with more episodes.
That is, lower on the y-axis is better.
If we run Dyna-Q with 0 planning steps
we get exactly the Q-learning algorithm.
As we can see, it slowly gets better but
plateaus at around 14 steps per episode.
If we run Dyna-Q with five planning
steps it reaches the same performance as
Q-learning but much more quickly.
Dyna-Q with 50 planning steps
only takes about three episodes
to find a good policy.
Dyna-Q is far more sample efficient.
Look at the y-axis.
After two episodes the policy found
by Q-learning still requires hundreds
of steps to escape the maze.
For the same number of environment
interactions, Dyna-Q can learn a lot more.
This shows how planning makes better
use of environment experience
if the model is correct.
[SOUND] Let's visualize what's going
on in a slightly different maze.
We use an arrow to show the greedy
action according to the estimated value
in each state.
A state without an arrow means that every
action is equally likely under the policy.
After one episode,
Q-learning updates just one action value,
the one corresponding to the up
action in the state next to the goal.
This is the only state where a transition
with a nonzero reward was experienced.
It would take several more episodes
to bootstrap this state's value
back to other nearby states.
Let's look more closely at how
search control impacts planning.
Our robot will do things
slightly differently than Dyna-Q.
But that's just to emphasize
our point more clearly.
We will start with 10 planning steps and
call the planning loop
10 times in a row, so
that's 100 steps of planning in total.
As you can see, many of the planning
updates fail to change the value function.
In fact, the agent only updated
the values of 2 state action pairs
after 100 steps of planning.
Let's keep going.
This time we will try 100
planning steps per call and
let the agent run a bit longer.
Even with 100 planning steps,
the first few calls update only
a handful of action values.
Why does the agent needs so many planning
steps to learn the value function and
a reasonable policy?
The agent needs many planning steps
because search control samples
state action pairs randomly.
The planning update will not have
any effect if the sample state
action pair produces a 0 T error.
This happened a lot in this environment
because all the rewards are 0, and
so are the initial values.
What would happen if we ordered the state
action pairs in a more efficient way?
It turns out the agent could learn a good
policy only using a sixth of the planning
updates.
in larger environments random search
control becomes even more problematic.
If you want to learn
more about this topic,
check out section 8.4 of the textbook.
[SOUND] In this video
we tested the tabular
Dyna-Q algorithm in a simple grid world.
We saw how planning can
dramatically speed up learning.
In our experiment, the more planning
we did the better the agent performed.
Bye for now.